# Software-for-Data-Analysis-of-xCGE-LIF
## Functions of the software
This software is an open-source software for the processing of data generated by analysis of glycans by xCGE-LIF. It is developed in python, which is an open-source programming language with a large number of third-party libraries [1], such as numpy, pandas for data processing, tkinter for Graphical User Interface (GUI), matplotlib for generating bar graphs, etc.

The software has two main functions. One is to develop glycan-based standards database and the other is to analyse raw data from the measured samples and assign konwn glycan species of the database to measured signals by comparing the time points of signals to those deposited in the migration time database.



### Glycan-Based Standards Database

The assignment of analytical signals to a distinct glycan is based on the fact that each glycan- species produces a signal at specific migration time. However, the glycan-specific migration times have to be determined empirically. Thus a panel of reference glycans was analysed to determine their specific migration times and to build up a migration time database.

Different glycoconjugates have their own unique glycans, so for different glycoconjugates, it is necessary to establish their own data-tables in the database. According to the requirements of the group of Falk Büttner. The software has established tables for glycoconjugates-GSL, N-glycans, and GAGs.
By analysing purchased glycans or glycans derived from purchased GSL, N-glycans and GAG, glycan-specific migration times can be defined and these values are used to create a database.

The software performs fundamental database operations such as inserting, removing, updating, and selecting the records of the data table. Because the MTU value will change over time, they need to be measured and updated in the database irregular. So it is very important that the software can provide the function of daily maintenance of the database.




### Data Analysis
In order to assign measured signals to glycan species of the database by comparing the time points of signals to those deposited in the migration time database, the software needs to automatically analyse the original data. The main processes are:
1 Introduction

Extract data 
Data extraction from the original data for further analysis.

Update database 
Since the migration time of glycan signals changes over time, when assigning measured signals to glycan species of the database, the data in the database cannot be used directly. A few known glycans of the database are measured together with unknown samples. Based on the time shift of the signal between a glycan in the database and the same glycan that was measured at the actual day, the software is mathematically readjusting the migration times of all glycans in the database. Thereby the software enables the accurate assignment of peaks to distinct glycan species.

Calculate relative or normalized intensity 
The developed software also enables to calculate rel- ative glycan intensities, i.e., the relative intensity of a distinct glycan signal referred to the sum of all glycan signals detected. Furthermore normalized glycan intensities can by calculated by com- parison of signal intensities to the intensity of an internal standard which is present at same levels in all samples.

Group different samples 
Align the migration time of similar signals in different samples. In order to compare the difference in signals’ intensity of different samples, it is necessary to eliminate the error of the signals’ migration time between samples. When the signals of different samples are detected in the similar migration times, it is necessary to replace the detected similar migration times with the average value of those migration times.

Drop small 
Data According to the adjustable threshold, the software can delete the signals whose intensity is less than the threshold in the samples, these signals are too small to be of interest to researchers, and may be caused by background noise.

Assign glycan species of the database to measured signals 
Dependent on an individually adjustable error, the software automatically assigns glycan species of the database to measured signals.

Different parameters can also be modified during the analysis process to examine the impact of different error tolerances on the findings of data processing.




Through the above data processing, the software can help researchers to achieve the following types of analysis purposes. 1. Analyse the glycan components of the samples. 2. Analyse the difference in signal’s intensity between different samples. 3. Analyse the differences between replicate groups and confirm whether the differences are statistically significant. In order to detect whether the differences of different conditions are statistically significant, researchers often repeat different con- ditions, and each replicate group is a repetition of the same conditions. The software can calculate the mean of each group for comparison between groups, and it can also calculate the standard deviation of each group to see if the difference is statistically significant.

Findings can be displayed either as fingerprints (resembling the raw data) or as bar graphs. The rotation angle of the annotation, the color of the bars, the length of the axes, and other factors can all be tweaked to improve the appearance of a bar graph.
